Buy Mics
If you do a regression, need to make them less intercorrelated, not as important for independent
ECOG SP Total (subject)
ECOG PT Total (partner total)
(ECOG is likely subjective)
Choose ADAS11 because previous results showed this was better (pace of aging paper)
RAVLT percent forgetting (pace of aging paper)

Each of them

READ UP ON ECOG

CDRSB - clinical dementia sum of boxes, interview and ask about memory, orientation, etc., lower is better, higher is worse, self-reported

ADAS11, 13, q4 - similar to CDRSB. Higher scores are worse. Scored on how many errors you make on a series of cognitive questions, 11 is the standard, 13 had a few added, Q4 is selected for memory, base on chenzhong pace of aging

MMSE - Opposite scores. Higher score is better. Ask a series of questions, every time you get something wrong you lose points. Normal scores are between 27 and 30

RAVLT - Ray auditory visual learning test. List of 15 words. Give you that list and you have to recite it back to the person. Done 5x. Give you a second list to make you forget original. How many do you remember of the first 15. Immediate score. Immediate score, higher is better. Then other cognitive tests. Ask how much you remember. Delayed score. ADNI calls it forgetting. How many you remember is forgetting. What percent is forgetting. Forgetting, high score is worse. RAVLT is how many more you remember each time. Higher is better. Include all but raw forgetting.

LDELTOTAL - Logical memory test delayed. Read a story, have to recite back that story. Ask how much of the story you remember. More you remember is better. Higher scores are better.

TRABSCOR - Amount of time it takes to complete a trail-making score. Higher is worse. Trail-making B. Piece of paper. Series of circles. On those circles you draw lines between them. Max time of 300 seconds. Ceiling effects may be important. Potentially remove 300 seconds as nan since its the time limit.

FAQ - Functional activities questions. How you get along in your day to day life. Higher score is worse. 0 to 3.

MOCA - Similar to MMSE. Higher score is better.

ECOG - Computer test. Rate things. Memory language, etc. Just include EcogPtTotal and EcogSpTotal ; participant and study partner totals. It's self-reported. Lower scores are better. (maybe look into this?). 

Some of these tests are informative for people who are CN as well. Some are not. Not much variance in scores. CDR, ADAS, MMSE, FAQ, MOCA, probably ECOG (not sure on that one). Those will be difficult for CNs. RAVLT, LDELTOTAL, TRABSCOR should all be fine for CNs correlation wise.

ADNI protocols are online. Go into a lot of detail regarding the scores.


=== Correlation method ===

Partial correlation, vs. spearman correlation, vs. regression vs. education and sex in the regression as co-variates.

Individual regressions for each cognitive score. Allows you to account for age, sex, and education for each one. Plot the Betas. 

Should standardize the betas across regressions. Take a Z-score of everything. Age gap, all cog-scores, etc., except categorical like sex. Betas will be in units of standard deviation. 

Normalize within each score. No need to post-process for the Beta. Betas represent the units of standard deviation change. Not normalizing helps you interpret the units of change per-test. Maybe include non-normalized in the supplementary.

Could do all regions, then just plot the significant ones. Eh. Plot on the cortex the betas that are significant. Could also just look for interesting results for every region after doing all of them.

